So in the previous example, we saw how
important block chain is to BitCoin.
Block chain ensures a tamper proof ledger.
Together with the digital signature,
this forms a system of property rights,
but block chain is not enough.
In this lecture we will see why.
Let's go back to MariaCoin.
Now with the background
from the previous lecture,
we can be a little bit more specific
about how MariaCoin might work.
So let's think about
transacting with MariaCoin.
Maria creates MariaCoin,
what exactly does this mean?
It means she creates a unique
digital ID representing the coin and
she signs it with her private key as we
discussed with the digital signature.
Now in stage two, Maria writes a message,
pay Sophie with this coin.
By Sophie, in BitCoin terminology,
we actually mean just Sophie's public
signature and by this coin, we mean
a hash pointer which is to say a pointer
along with a hash function of the coin.
Then Maria signs the message
with her private key, so
we talked about how that works
also with digital signatures.
Now using Maria's public key, any user
can view this series of operations and
verify that Sophie is
the valid owner of the coin.
Along with the hash pointers, the ledger
is secure, property rights are valid, and
Sophie can repeat steps 2 and
3 to transfer the coin where she likes.
So while this MariaCoin technically
preserves property rights,
it's actually not a viable system.
Let's see why.
So once Sophie is the valid owner of
the coin, she can repeat the sell
the coin protocol to pay
another user with the coin.
And she can repeat the protocol again
to pay yet another user with the coin.
So there are no safeguards in this system
to prevent Sophie from taking the coin and
spending it twice.
So we know based on the ledger that Sophie
is the valid owner of the coin, and
everybody might maintain the ledger,
and accept that.
But what happens if Sophie then
tries to sell the coin twice?
Well some people will have a copy
of the ledger with Geoff, and
some people will have a copy
of the ledger with Mike.
And it will work like the coin
simply been minted again.
Now you might think, well why don't we
just figure out which one occurred first?
But in a distributed network,
it might not be so
clear which one occurred first, right?
It takes time for
the message to get to all the nodes.
This is whats known as
the Double-spend Attack.
Its a complicated name for
a very simple concept which is when
you've got an online coin, what is to
prevent somebody from simply spending
the coin as many times as they want?
And it sounds sort of simple and trivial,
but actually, it's a real problem.
Now, there's a pretty straightforward
workaround for the double spend attack.
So okay,
that idea with MariaCoin didn't work.
Let's try again.
Let's consider something called JamesCoin.
So JamesCoin is a lot like MariaCoin
in that people can use signatures
to transfer between one another,
but it's got one key difference.
All transactions in the ledger must
be signed by a person named James,
let's assume it's a very
specific person to be valid.
So the first transaction
is James creates JamesCoin.
James now writes a message.
Pay Sophie with this coin and signs it.
Sophie can then write a message.
Pay Geoff with this coin and then sign it.
However, both Sophie and
James sign off on this last message and
then we can also require that
James broadcast the ledger.
Now, James has signed the message,
pay Geoff with his coin.
So whatever software he's running knows
that Geoff is the valid owner of the coin.
Even if James wanted to sign
off on a contradictory message,
pay Mike with his coin,
it wouldn't let him.
You could easily write
something like that.
So now we have a system that
avoids the double spend attack.
It's actually a pretty good system.
So for one thing, this ledger can be
widely distributed, and it's tamper-proof
due to the blockchain technology that
I described in the previous lecture.
Which means that even James
himself who needs to sign off on
every message cannot manipulate
the ledger without detection.
So for these reasons,
while in some senses seems centralized,
it's actually a pretty
decentralized system.
James cannot act badly in an obvious
way because everybody would detect it.
But there are some problems.
I mean, James does sound a little
bit like a centralized intermediary.
He's not quite a centralized intermediary,
but
it's not as decentralized
as one might want.
For example, James might decide to sign
off on his friend's transactions but
not on others.
Also, it's a little unstable, right?
We'd better hope that
nothing happens to James.
If something happens to James,
we don't have a currency anymore.
So this is not something
that BitCoin wants.
So with BitCoin,
we are seeking a more decentralized
system to avoid the double-spend attack.
So to summarize thus far, blockchain and
the digital signature are necessary
components for cryptocurrency,
but they're not sufficient.
They do not, for instance,
prevent the double-spend attack.
Requiring one address to sign
off an all transaction does
avoid the double spend attack, but it is
prone to manipulation and system failure.
That is why cryptocurrency requires
what I call distributed consensus, and
what I'll discuss in the next lecture.